Now we had a very close look at pug as a templating engine but it's only one of three options.
Now this was a quite extensive look because I also explained what templating engines are and what their
core logic is,
it'll be a bit faster for the two other languages therefore or the other two solutions
so let's continue with handlebars which does not follow such a minimal html approach but uses normal html
mixed with some templating logic.
So let's use handlebars and for this,
let's go to app.js
.
and in there, we now need to change our view engine.
Now we did install express handlebars but this actually is a package that is not auto-installed by express,
so instead we manually have to tell express that there is such an express handlebars engine available
and for this, we first of all import it and to find out whether you do need to do this for your favorite
engine or not, you'll simply check their docs because there, this is mentioned. So for express handlebars,
we add express.hbs,
the name is up to you by requiring express handlebars.
So now this is imported
and now we have to tell express that this exists, that this is an engine
it can use.
We do this by calling app and now there is an engine method and this registers a new templating engine
in case we're using one which is not built-in, pug was built-in kind of, express handlebars is not.
So to register this, we have to define a name for our engine and you can use any name you want though
of course you should try to not clash with the built-in engines to which you also find a link at the
end of this module by the way. Handlebars is a name we can use for example,
so let's give this engine this name and now we just have to tell
express this is the name,
now what is the actual tool I should use?
And that is express.hbs,
so that object we just imported, that just turns out to be a function we can call and we have to call
that basically initialises this engine you could say,
so this function returns the initialised view engine which we can assign to engine here.
So express handlebars gives us this engine and now we have to switch the view engine here to handlebars
and obviously this name here has to match the name you set up here.
With this you're good to go,
now you're ready to use handlebars in your code.
Now how do you use it?
Now you do create new files for this
and let's start with the 404.html page. I'll create a 404.handlebars page,
now we have to name it handlebars here
as this is the default by express handlebars and we defined this as an engine name here.
You can also change the name
for example to hbs, like this and now you're able to use .hbs as an extension, so this is how that
works and how you register handlebars as the view engine.
Now with that registered, let's use it and let's take the 404.html file and copy its content into
the 404.hbs file because handlebars uses normal html with some custom syntax
therefore there is no minimal html version as it was with pug.
Now in this file let's remove that active class on that link in the navigation because that's still
wrong, in that file
I now want to change that here,
I want to output that title dynamically so that you can see how that works with handlebars.
Keep in mind that in app.js where we load that 404 page, we are passing in this data and the way
you pass data into templates doesn't change with the engine,
this is always the same type of flow. You pass in an object with key value pairs where the keys and
therefore indirectly also the values are available in the template, just the way you use it in a template
differs from engine to engine.
And in handlebars, we output this value here by adding double curly braces, opening and closing and between
these we add page title, so that key name for which we want to output the value.
And with that if we save that and we go back and reload some page which does not exist, we should still
get page not found, this time handled through handlebars and just as before with pug if we inspect the
source,
we of course see no handlebars code, the double curly braces was simply replaced with the content that should
be rendered.
So this is how we use handlebars
and now if you're feeling confident with the help of the official docs where you learn how to use
if statements and loops,
feel free to go ahead and also replace the add product pages with the handlebar equivalents
otherwise we'll of course do that together in the next lecture.